README.md, before:

Smack
=====

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/igniterealtime/Smack.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/github/igniterealtime/Smack)  [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/igniterealtime/Smack/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/igniterealtime/Smack)  [![Project Stats](https://www.openhub.net/p/smack/widgets/project_thin_badge.gif)](https://www.openhub.net/p/smack)  [![Link to XMPP chat smack@conference.igniterealtime.org](https://inverse.chat/badge.svg?room=smack@conference.igniterealtime.org)](https://inverse.chat/#converse/room?jid=smack@conference.igniterealtime.org)

About
-----

[Smack] is an open source, highly modular, easy to use, XMPP client library written in Java for Java SE compatible JVMs and Android.

A pure Java library, it can be embedded into your applications to create anything from a full XMPP instant messaging client to simple XMPP integrations such as sending notification messages and presence-enabling devices.
Smack and XMPP allows you to easily exchange data, in various ways e.g. fire-and-forget, publish-subscribe, between human and non-human endpoints (M2M, IoT, …).

More information are provided by the [Overview](documentation/overview.md).

Getting started
---------------

Start with having a look at the **[Documentation]** and the **[Javadoc]**.

Instructions on how to use Smack in your Java or Android project are provided in the [Smack Readme and Upgrade Guide](https://igniterealtime.org/projects/smack/readme).

Professional Services
---------------------

Smack is a collaborative effort of many open source, professionally and spare-time, paid and unpaid, contributors.
While we try to provide the best possible XMPP library for Android and Java SE compatible execution environments by following state of the art software engineering practices, the API may not always perfectly fit your requirements.
We welcome contributions and encourage discussion about how Smack can be further improved.
We also provide **paid services** ranging from **XMPP/Smack related consulting** to **designing and developing features** in order to accommodate your needs.
Please contact [Florian Schmaus](mailto:flo@geekplace.eu) for further information.

Bug Reporting
-------------

Only a few users have access for filling bugs in the tracker. New
users should:

1. Read ["How to ask for help or report an issue"](https://github.com/igniterealtime/Smack/wiki/How-to-ask-for-help,-report-an-issue-and-possible-solve-the-problem-yourself)
2. [Create a discourse account](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/signup) (you can also sign up with your Google account).
3. Login to the forum account
4. Press "New Topic" in your toolbar and choose the 'Smack Support' sub-category.

Please search for your issues in the bug tracker before reporting.

Donate
------

If you find Smack useful and feel like donating, then you can use one of the following systems:

- Donate via Bitcoin: 1LiU78z3498wu3jwRPKbvovKAHjTcpVbuK

Contact
-------

The developers hang around in `#smack` (freenode, IRC) and `open_chat@conference.igniterealtime.org` (XMPP MUC room).
Remember that it may take some time (~hours) to get a response.
 
You can also reach us via the [Smack Support Forum] if you have questions or need support, or the [Smack Developers Forum] if you want to discuss Smack development.

Contributing
------------

If you want to start developing for Smack and eventually contribute code back, then please have a look at the [Guidelines for Smack Developers and Contributors](https://github.com/igniterealtime/Smack/wiki/Guidelines-for-Smack-Developers-and-Contributors).
The guidelines also contain development quickstart instructions.

Resources
---------

- Current Readme: https://igniterealtime.org/projects/smack/readme
- Bug Tracker: https://issues.igniterealtime.org/browse/SMACK
- JaCoCo Coverage Reports: https://www.igniterealtime.org/builds/smack/dailybuilds/jacoco/html/
- Nightly Javadoc: http://www.igniterealtime.org/builds/smack/dailybuilds/javadoc/
- Nightly Documentation: http://www.igniterealtime.org/builds/smack/dailybuilds/documentation/
- User Forum: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-support
- Dev Forum: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-dev
- Maven Releases: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/org/igniterealtime/smack/
- Maven Snapshots: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/org/igniterealtime/smack/
- Nightly Unique Maven Snapshots: https://igniterealtime.org/repo/

Ignite Realtime
===============

[Ignite Realtime] is an Open Source community composed of end-users and developers around the world who are interested in applying innovative, open-standards-based RealTime Collaboration to their businesses and organizations. 
We're aimed at disrupting proprietary, non-open standards-based systems and invite you to participate in what's already one 
of the biggest and most active Open Source communities.

[Smack] - an [Ignite Realtime] community project.

[Smack]: https://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/smack/index.jsp
[Ignite Realtime]: https://www.igniterealtime.org
[XMPP (Jabber)]: https://xmpp.org/
[Smack Developers Forum]: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-dev
[Smack Support Forum]: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-support
[Documentation]: https://download.igniterealtime.org/smack/docs/latest/documentation/
[Javadoc]: https://download.igniterealtime.org/smack/docs/latest/javadoc/

Commit message:

Add Smack.getNoticeStream() and 'License' section to README

README.md, after:

Smack
=====

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/igniterealtime/Smack.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/github/igniterealtime/Smack)  [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/igniterealtime/Smack/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/igniterealtime/Smack)  [![Project Stats](https://www.openhub.net/p/smack/widgets/project_thin_badge.gif)](https://www.openhub.net/p/smack)  [![Link to XMPP chat smack@conference.igniterealtime.org](https://inverse.chat/badge.svg?room=smack@conference.igniterealtime.org)](https://inverse.chat/#converse/room?jid=smack@conference.igniterealtime.org)

About
-----

[Smack] is an open source, highly modular, easy to use, XMPP client library written in Java for Java SE compatible JVMs and Android.

A pure Java library, it can be embedded into your applications to create anything from a full XMPP instant messaging client to simple XMPP integrations such as sending notification messages and presence-enabling devices.
Smack and XMPP allows you to easily exchange data, in various ways e.g. fire-and-forget, publish-subscribe, between human and non-human endpoints (M2M, IoT, …).

More information are provided by the [Overview](documentation/overview.md).

Getting started
---------------

Start with having a look at the **[Documentation]** and the **[Javadoc]**.

Instructions on how to use Smack in your Java or Android project are provided in the [Smack Readme and Upgrade Guide](https://igniterealtime.org/projects/smack/readme).

License
-------

Most of Smack is governed by the Apache License 2.0 (SPDX License Identifier: Apache 2.0). This license requires that the contents of a NOICE text file are shown "…within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear.".

Smack comes which such a NOTICE file. Moreover, since `smack-core` is licensed under the Apache License 2.0, the conditions apply to every project using Smack. The content of Smack's NOTICE file can conveniently be retrieved using `Smack.getNoticeStream()`.

Some subprojects of Smack are governed by other licenses. Please refer to the individual subprojects.

Professional Services
---------------------

Smack is a collaborative effort of many open source, professionally and spare-time, paid and unpaid, contributors.
While we try to provide the best possible XMPP library for Android and Java SE compatible execution environments by following state of the art software engineering practices, the API may not always perfectly fit your requirements.
We welcome contributions and encourage discussion about how Smack can be further improved.
We also provide **paid services** ranging from **XMPP/Smack related consulting** to **designing and developing features** in order to accommodate your needs.
Please contact [Florian Schmaus](mailto:flo@geekplace.eu) for further information.

Bug Reporting
-------------

Only a few users have access for filling bugs in the tracker. New
users should:

1. Read ["How to ask for help or report an issue"](https://github.com/igniterealtime/Smack/wiki/How-to-ask-for-help,-report-an-issue-and-possible-solve-the-problem-yourself)
2. [Create a discourse account](https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/signup) (you can also sign up with your Google account).
3. Login to the forum account
4. Press "New Topic" in your toolbar and choose the 'Smack Support' sub-category.

Please search for your issues in the bug tracker before reporting.

Donate
------

If you find Smack useful and feel like donating, then you can use one of the following systems:

- Donate via Bitcoin: 1LiU78z3498wu3jwRPKbvovKAHjTcpVbuK

Contact
-------

The developers hang around in `#smack` (freenode, IRC) and `open_chat@conference.igniterealtime.org` (XMPP MUC room).
Remember that it may take some time (~hours) to get a response.
 
You can also reach us via the [Smack Support Forum] if you have questions or need support, or the [Smack Developers Forum] if you want to discuss Smack development.

Contributing
------------

If you want to start developing for Smack and eventually contribute code back, then please have a look at the [Guidelines for Smack Developers and Contributors](https://github.com/igniterealtime/Smack/wiki/Guidelines-for-Smack-Developers-and-Contributors).
The guidelines also contain development quickstart instructions.

Resources
---------

- Current Readme: https://igniterealtime.org/projects/smack/readme
- Bug Tracker: https://issues.igniterealtime.org/browse/SMACK
- JaCoCo Coverage Reports: https://www.igniterealtime.org/builds/smack/dailybuilds/jacoco/html/
- Nightly Javadoc: http://www.igniterealtime.org/builds/smack/dailybuilds/javadoc/
- Nightly Documentation: http://www.igniterealtime.org/builds/smack/dailybuilds/documentation/
- User Forum: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-support
- Dev Forum: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-dev
- Maven Releases: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/org/igniterealtime/smack/
- Maven Snapshots: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/org/igniterealtime/smack/
- Nightly Unique Maven Snapshots: https://igniterealtime.org/repo/

Ignite Realtime
===============

[Ignite Realtime] is an Open Source community composed of end-users and developers around the world who are interested in applying innovative, open-standards-based RealTime Collaboration to their businesses and organizations. 
We're aimed at disrupting proprietary, non-open standards-based systems and invite you to participate in what's already one 
of the biggest and most active Open Source communities.

[Smack] - an [Ignite Realtime] community project.

[Smack]: https://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/smack/index.jsp
[Ignite Realtime]: https://www.igniterealtime.org
[XMPP (Jabber)]: https://xmpp.org/
[Smack Developers Forum]: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-dev
[Smack Support Forum]: https://discourse.igniterealtime.org/c/smack/smack-support
[Documentation]: https://download.igniterealtime.org/smack/docs/latest/documentation/
[Javadoc]: https://download.igniterealtime.org/smack/docs/latest/javadoc/
